Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-24677-homework5-asymptotic-stability-and-lyapunov-stability
<br>
<strong>Exercise 1. </strong><em>Asymptotic stability and Lyapunov stability.</em>

For each of the systems given below, determine whether it is Lyapunov stable, whether it is asymptotic stable.

<h1>(a) (5 points)</h1>

<h1>(b) (5 points)</h1>

<strong>Exercise 2. </strong><em>Stabilizability </em>

Decompose the state equation

to a controllable form. Is the reduced state equation observable, stabilizable, detectable?

<h1>Exercise 3. <em>Stability </em></h1>

Figure 1: The VTOL. aircraft

The following is a planar model of a Vertical Take-off and Landing (VTOL) aircraft such as Lock-heed’s F35 Joint Strike fighter around hover (cf. Figure 1):

where <em>x</em>, <em>y </em>are the position of the center of mass of the aircraft in the vertical plane and <em>θ </em>is the roll angle of the aircraft. <em>u</em>1 and <em>u</em>2 are the thrust forces (control inputs). The thrust is generated by a powerful fan and is vectored into two forces <em>u</em>1 and <em>u</em>2. <em>J </em>is the moment of inertia, and <em> </em>is a small coupling constant. Determine the stability of the linearized model around the equilibrium solution

<em>x</em>˜(<em>t</em>)<em>,y</em>˜(<em>t</em>)<em>,θ</em><sup>˜</sup>(<em>t</em>) = 0<em>,u</em>˜<sub>1</sub>(<em>t</em>) = <em>mg</em>; ˜<em>u</em><sub>2</sub>(<em>t</em>) = 0.

The linearized model should be time invariant. The state <em>z </em>= [<em>θ,x,</em>˙ <em>y,</em>˙ <em>θ</em><sup>˙</sup>]<em><sup>T</sup></em>, <em>u </em>= [<em>u</em><sub>1</sub><em>,u</em><sub>2</sub>]<em><sup>T </sup></em><strong>Exercise 4. </strong><em>Lyapunov’s direct method </em><em>(10 points)</em>

An LTI system is described by the equations

Use Lyapunov’s direct method to determine the range of variable <em>a </em>for which the system is asymptotically stable. Consider the Lyapunov function,

<strong>Exercise 5. </strong><em>Stability of Non-Linear Systems </em><em>(20 points) </em>Consider the following system:

<em>x</em>˙1 = <em>x</em>2 − <em>x</em>1<em>x</em>22 <em>x</em>˙2 = −<em>x</em>31

Is the system stable:

<ul>

 <li>Based on Lyapunov’s Indirect method? <strong>(5 points)</strong></li>

</ul>

[Hint: is the approximated linearized system stable?]

<ul>

 <li>Based on Lyapunov’s Direct method? <strong>(5 points) </strong>Consider the Lyapunov function:</li>

 <li>Plot the Phase Portrait plot of the original system and linearized system in a. <strong>(5 points)</strong>. Submit the code to Gradescope.</li>

 <li>Generate a 3D plot showing the variation of <em>V</em><sup>˙ </sup>with respect to <em>x</em><sub>1 </sub>and <em>x</em><sub>2</sub>. <strong>(5 points) </strong>[Hint: Use Axes3D python library]. Submit the code to Gradescope.</li>

</ul>

Note: For (c) and (d), include the code along with the plot in the pdf to be submitted. No need to submit .py file.

<strong>Exercise 6. </strong><em>BIBO Stability </em><em>(10 points)</em>

For each of the systems given below, determine whether it is BIBO stable.

<h1>(a) (5 points)</h1>

<h1>(b) (5 points)</h1>

<strong>Exercise 7. </strong><em>BIBO Stability </em><em>(Manual-grading: 15 points)</em>

Figure 2: A simple heat exchanger

Consider a simplified model for a heat exchanger shown in Figure 2, in which <em>f<sub>C </sub></em>and <em>f<sub>H </sub></em>are the flows (assumed constant) of cold water and hot water, <em>T<sub>H </sub></em>and <em>T<sub>C </sub></em>represent the temperatures in the hot and cold compartments, respectively, <em>T<sub>Hi </sub></em>and <em>T<sub>Ci </sub></em>denote the temperature of the hot and cold inflow, respectively, and <em>V<sub>H </sub></em>and <em>V<sub>C </sub></em>are the volumes of hot and cold water. The temperatures in both compartments evolve according to:

)                                         (1)

)                                        (2)

Let the inputs to the system be <em>u</em><sub>1 </sub>= <em>T<sub>Ci</sub></em>, <em>u</em><sub>2 </sub>= <em>T<sub>Hi</sub></em>, the outputs are <em>y</em>1 = <em>T<sub>C </sub></em>and <em>y</em>2 = <em>T<sub>H</sub></em>, and assume that <em>f<sub>C </sub></em>= <em>f<sub>H </sub></em>= 0<em>.</em>1(<em>m</em><sup>3</sup><em>/min</em>), <em>β </em>= 0<em>.</em>2(<em>m</em><sup>3</sup><em>/min</em>) and <em>V<sub>H </sub></em>= <em>V<sub>C </sub></em>= 1(<em>m</em><sup>3</sup>).

<ol>

 <li>Write the state space and output equations for this system. <strong>(5 points)</strong></li>

 <li>In the absence of any input, determine <em>y</em><sub>1</sub>(<em>t</em>) and <em>y</em><sub>2</sub>(<em>t</em>). <strong>(5 points)</strong></li>

 <li>Is the system BIBO stable? Show why or why not. <strong>(5 points)</strong></li>

</ol>